---
title: "FLS team meeting 2026-01-09"
tags: ["meeting-minutes"]
date: 2026-01-09
discussion: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/520710-t-lang.2Ffls/topic/meeting.202026-01-09/with/567027190
url: https://hackmd.io/@rust-fls-team/BkKE5YR4-e/edit
---

# 2026-01-09 - `t-fls` Meeting

## Attendance

### Attendees

- Pete LeVasseur
- Eric Huss
- Hristian Kirtchev
- Tshepang Mbambo
- Tomas Sedovic
- TC

### Regrets

- Alex Celeste

## Agenda

- Walk-in topic triage

## FLS 1.91.0, 1.91.1 update

### [[Change]: [1.91.0, 1.91.1] Lower pattern bindings in the order they're written and base drop order on primary bindings' order](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/issues/623)

PR: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/631

Pete: TC left some valuable comments there. I didn't look at them/commented until this morning. Let's go over these now.

https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/631#discussion_r2662573390

Pete: They're dropped in the reverse order

TC: In the Reference, you have the bit that's specifying it and then you get down to an example, but the example mirrors the language but in reverse. I have an example, I underline the first "or pattern" and say "X is the first bind it in the or pattern so we drop it first". So we say the rule and then apply it in reverse order.

Pete: That's a really good way of looking at it.

Pete: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/631#discussion_r2662592869. We specify another concept now, but do we need to have specified this again. Maybe we could clean up the language, to clarify the order?

Hristian: My reasoning was: we need to loop how to the or-patterns works. That's why I moved that outside of the or patters processing.

Pete: It almost feels then that you need call back into the bit of how to process the pattern without alternation. You may need to say what should be done with each alternation.

TC: You're right. If you want to refactor this, you have to rewrite the whole section. You have to take out the loop, you have to weave the rule into the entire section below and then you define it inductively.

TC: Or you keep the loop, you work it top-down. That's how the compiler/parser works. You define the order in which you're stepping through the or patterns from the outside. It's worth looking at how the Reference does it.

Hristian: Is the whole dynamic semantics of or patterns I took from the Reference relevant here?

https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/blob/master/src/patterns.md#dynamic-semantics

Hristian: Is this applicable to general rules or or-patterns nested in other or-patterns?

TC: This has to do with the order that reads and other such things happen. As soon as we do nested pattern guards the language will use this here too. The dynamic semantics are speaking to knowing the order reads are going to happen for e.g. unsafe code (this is separate from the concerns of drop order). We evaluate the patterns in order.

Pete: So that's not relevant for how the pattern matching occurs?

TC: That's correct. It's not controlling how we define drop order within bindings.

Hristian: We have to express the following: we know how to do individual pattern matching. When we have patterns that are sub-patterns of an or-pattern, we'll need to try the match going from the first sub-pattern on the left and once we get our first match, we stop. The question is how do we phrase this.

Pete: This is a gap that currently exists in the FLS. This is about clarifying the drop order in or patterns, right?

Hristian: Yes, they didn't exist before. We need to specify the runtime semantics.

Pete: I'll look at what the Reference specifies here.

Hristian: I'll think about it too.

Pete: the last bit: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/631#discussion_r2662539304

Hristian: The text is saying "for everything else we do this and only this" and then you provide yet another detail for a specific class of binding. I think TC's point is to just move that clarification above that.

TC: That's correct.


## FLS 1.92.0 update

### [Review change log suggestions](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/638)

Pete: Tshepang, the FLS may not be granular enough where these limitations are obvious (and therefore needing an update). As it exists today, you're right about today but what about the future?

Tshepang: Normally, we look at the release notes and see what changes need to happen in the FLS. The current release notes didn't have corresponding changes to the Reference either. A number of them fixed bugs that wouldn't make it to the Reference. So this is less about them missing in the FLS and just not needing an entry at all.

Tshepang: The MaybeUninit one is a stdlib question.

Pete: How does that work in the Reference? You don't comment on the core/std libraries?

Eric: Yes. And things like lints.

Tshepang: Outside of the release notes, Eric left a bunch of things that we could update in the FLS.

Pete: Could we go through the ones I left a comment on?

Pete: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/638#discussion_r2676482255

Hristian: This seems relevant.

Tshepang: The Reference didn't say this isn't allowed.

Hristian: So this was a bug that prevented this from happening and people fixed it?

Tshepang: It's more of a restriction that a bug but yes, that was fixed and now it's in line with the Reference.

Tshepang: Pete, none of the comments you've left on the PR needed an update to the Reference.

Hristian: Is `&raw` a new language feature?

Eric: It's been introduced in 1.82.

Pete: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/638#discussion_r2676487765 that seems like a behavior change. But that wasn't documented in the Reference either?

Hristian: What does "materialize" mean

TC: When you have a constant that has a droppable value, you can observe whether the value can be materialized when that value was created and this resulted in an observable behavior.

Hristian: And this shouldn't have happened because the size was 0

TC: Yes, we had a long-standing policy to materialize the value exactly the amount of times as specified in the array syntax. And that was 0 here. The Reference already had that correctly.

Pete: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/638#discussion_r2676494052. The original PR: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/146593. This again seems like a change of behavior that matches the intended behavior. So this feels like a bugfix to me as well.

Pete: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/638#discussion_r2676498977. These things are described in the FLS. Should this interaction be described?

Tshepang: This is a change where the language is becoming more consistent.

Pete: So there's nothing forbidding what's on the left in the FLS. So this is a lifted restriction?

Tshepang: Yes.

Hristian: There's this notion of generic conformance that tries to explain how generic arguments are checked against a generic template: https://rust-lang.github.io/fls/generics.html#generic-conformance

Pete: https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/638#discussion_r2676502899

Hristian: That sounds like a pure compiler change.

TC: There's almost certainly nothing in the FLS is that speaks to this.

Pete: Is there anything in the Reference speaking to this? Should it be in the FLS?

TC: We should have the entire type system specified :-)

TC: Right now we have 2 implementations in the trait solver. lcnr is working to land the next one globally (for trait solving and everything else). We already landed it for coherence checking (that no 2 impls overlap and to enforce the orphan rule correctly). Here he's talking about some changes to the *next solver*. The change talks about strengthening the higher-ranked region handling coherence.

TC: You want type checking to catch as much as possible. The leak check simulates certain aspects of the borrow checker to catch them in type checking. That's what they're touching here -- the behavior of the leak check.

Hristian: We have this section in the FLS: https://rust-lang.github.io/fls/implementations.html#implementation-coherence. Maybe something there should be changed? There is some text there about overlapping implementations.

Pete: Is there a discussion about overlapping implementation and coherence in the Reference?

TC: Yes.

Hristian: That's where I got it from.

TC: Nothing in here is even speaking to the lifetimes. The change can't affect that because it only affects higher-ranked region checking.

## Formality (a-mir-formality) / Style

## What the assurance levels (SIL/ASIL) require from the FLS

Tshepang: Ferrocene is qualified for two major standards (IEC 61508, ISO 26262). It's qualified for the highest levels of assurance. I need to understand: you mentioned that we can only do ASIL-B. I needed to know where you're at and how is it that we're not aligned on that.

Pete: This is a difference between a tool vendor and a company trying to deploy a safety critical system. There's a concern raised by Robert C. Seacord. It was regarding a lack of enumeration of undefined behavior in Rust. There's a certain level of comfort deployers of safety critical systems would like to have when they go to a higher level criticality. You could write ASIL-D code via Ferrocene and ship it. But these bits of code will interact with other parts of code written in C and C++. That will imply `unsafe` and that will imply a lack of comfort when there's not an enumerated list of what the undefined behavior is.

Pete: Robert and I read through what's available and it's falling a bit short. It feels worthwhile to build the coding standards in the FLS as it stands today. But we'd be comfortable to go to up to ASIL-B at this point. These concerns don't prevent you from using the FLS, but may run into actually deploying them in the word.

Hristian: List of undefined behavior in FLS: https://rust-lang.github.io/fls/undefined-behavior.html

Hristian: Robert seems to imply if there's safe code, then you'll only get Rust undefined behavior in that context. I don't think that's true.

Eric: That's supposed to be true. There are bugs, but my understanding is that UB can only happen in `unsafe` code.

Hristian: I see.

Hristian: Do we know what the FLS's wording on undefined behavior should be to make others comfortable. Do we have samples of other languages doing that? 

Pete: Annex J.2 is this from C standard.
