---
title: "FLS team meeting 2026-04-10"
tags: ["meeting-minutes"]
date: 2026-04-10
discussion: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/520710-t-lang.2Ffls/topic/meeting.202026-04-10.20meeting/with/584663664
url: https://hackmd.io/@rust-fls-team/S1nxnw82-x
---

# 2026-04-10 - `t-fls` Meeting

## Attendance

### Attendees

- Tshepang Mbambo
- Pete LeVasseur
- Nurzhan Saken

### Regrets

- Tomas Sedovic
- Alex Celeste
- Hristian Kirtchev
- Eric Huss
- Mark Rousskov
- TC

## Agenda

- Walk-in topic triage [minuted]
- t-release reach out [minuted]
- Progress towards generated glossary! [minuted]
- Developer's guide [minuted]

### Walk-in topics

#### Room at the Rust All-Hands?

Via Nurzhan Saken:
Please be aware that if you want to host a session at the All Hands (if you need to reserve a room or put something on the schedule), you should create an issue in this repo: https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026 (see #all-hands-2026 > Sessions @ 💬 for context). Let me or Tomas Sedovic know if you need help.

Pete: Tshepang, do you think we need a room?

Tshepang: I don't know.

Pete: Me neither. Depends how many FLS folks turn up. I'll ask Hristian and Alex if they'll be there. 

Tshepang: t-spec team may be interested.

Pete: Good point. FLS is t-spec's little sibling.

#### do not scare away contributions

How about this PR? Seems worthwhile to me to merge as-is:
[do not scare away contributions](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/687)

Pete: I approved it. Can we merge?

Tshepang: It's my PR, so it has to be someone else. This was created in the Ferrous era.

Pete: I don't have a problem with it. Why don't you just merge it. It should reflect the current state of FLS better.

(Merged.)

#### add dummy changelog entries

Should we merge this now? And then adjust afterwards?
[add dummy changelog entries for Rust 1.95](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/692)

Tshepang: I'm operating under the assumption that people are subscribed to the FLS repo.

Pete: I respect people that can follow all the GitHub notifications. I'm unable to. If you want to crosspost things, that will catch my attention. I monitor Zulip more closely.

Tshepang: Is there a ready-to-use bot that pings people on Zulip whenever a PR is updated?

Pete: Isn't there triagebot?

Nurzhan: There's something like that for project goals. When someone posts a comment under an issue, it posts in the respective Zulip topic.

Tshepang: I'll look into that.

(Merged.)

### t-release reach out

Zulip topic: [t-fls would like to help you (and help ourselves) with notes](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/241545-t-release/topic/t-fls.20would.20like.20to.20help.20you.20.28and.20help.20ourselves.29.20with.20notes/with/583878392)

Nurzhan: We mentioned this in the latest PM blog post: https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2026/04/09/program-management-update-2026-03/

Pete: Nice to mention that the release process is open.

Tshepang: Thanks for pointing it out.

(Pete and Tshepang praise Tomas and Nurzhan writing about the high-level stuff happening in the Project :-))

Pete: I put out a general message about wanting to help. You, Tshepang, mentioned the benefit to the FLS. We can try to show up and build credibility with them. Then we'd be in a better position to influence the process. Having release notes formed in a tidier shape sooner is our shared interest.

Tshepang: So far, what do you think we can help with? I thought of one thing. There was a mention of triagebot auto-opening and updating an issue so that it's not opened manually. We could have readonly issues only updated by the bot.

Pete: That sounds nice. Did they mention that this would be useful?

Tshepang: Mark (simulacrum) mentioned this last time. It's easy enough to generate manually, so they haven't bothered.

Pete: If you'll be looking into the triagebot for the FLS-Zulip connection, maybe you could also look into t-release support?

Tshepang: Okay.

Nurzhan: What do you want to change in the release process?

Tshepang: In the release notes, lang section, they don't separate the language and lint parts. I suggested if that could be separated. In our notes, we don't document lints. One of the t-release people, they didn't oppose it, but it seemed like they did.

Pete: There seems to be a debate around what's a language change and what's not. We don't want to end up in those, so we want to nudge the process more subtly.

### Progress towards generated glossary!

Update from Tshepang on the [tracking issue](https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/issues/680)

Pete: How are you feeling, Tshepang?

Tshepang: I added an extra step. We have terms that aren't even mentioned in the main text. I made sure all terms and definitions exist. I'm going towards where you went in the previous PR.

Pete: Did you remove any terms that you felt weren't relevant, or find a new home for them?

Tshepang: Yes, I removed a bunch. Depends on the reviewer what they'd consider irrelevant. Some were dangling, others were cosmetic.

Pete: Seems important to review the PR carefully then.

### Developer's guide / standardize changelog content

Pete: Merged! Thank you Hristian:
- https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/686
- https://github.com/rust-lang/fls/pull/691

## Action items

* Pete to update the Rust calendar and inform everyone to get the new invite.
* Pete to ask FLS team about All Hands attendance and in t-spec too
* Tshepang wants to check into how triagebot could be used to post to the Rust Zulip about opened issues/PRs
* Tshepang to also look into helping t-release with automated triagebot issue management
* Pete to review Tshepang's PR in greater detail.